{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red204\green204\blue204;\red0\green0\blue10;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green114\blue196;\red47\green84\blue150;\red51\green51\blue51;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs28 Anirudh Nagineni\par
anirudh4058@gmail.com | +1 (802)-392-6003\par
Java Developer\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\cf1\highlight2\f1\fs20\par
Summary\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sl288\slmult1\qj\cf3\highlight0\b0\lang16393 Accomplished and skilled IT professional looking for a challenging position as a Full-Stack Developer to upgrade my skills and knowledge in an established organization.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qj\cf0\lang1033\tab I have around 10+ of IT experience working through all phases of SDLC (design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications and websites). Utilized various cutting-edge technologies such as Python, Java, Kotlin, AWS, Big Data and Hadoop, cloud services. Proficient working on JavaScript frameworks like NodeJS, Express, Ember, Backbone, ReactJS. Experience and exposure in developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and using Front End Technologies like JAVA, PHP, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, CSS2/3, Media Queries, JSP, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Ember.js.  Good expertise in working with various Spring modules: Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Security. Good experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  Extensive knowledge of Web-based n-tier architecture, Database Design, development of applications using J2EE Design Patterns like creational, structural and behavioral design patterns (MVC Architecture, Data Access Object (DAO), Composite View, View Helper etc.). Hands on experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration. Developed Web-based enterprise applications using Java/J2EE, Core Java, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Micro Services, Web Services (SOAP and REST) and MVC Framework (Struts, Spring MVC). Experienced in development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, NetBeans, and IntelliJ. Experience in software configuration management tools like CVS,\~SVN\~and GitHub.\~Hands on experience working on front-end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON and Have experience in back-end, like Node.js, python, SQL /NoSQL databases, and APIs of all kinds, I've built high-availability AWS and Digital Ocean, Nginx, Apache HTTPs.\par
\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\cf1\b Languages\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Python,R\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b Software Methodologies\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj Agile (Scrum, TDD) and Waterfall \cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b Cloud \b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj AWS, GCP, OpenShift & OnPrem\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh540\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b Java Technologies\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj J2SE, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JMS, MQ Series\b , \b0 Web Services, Design Patterns, JAVA Beans.\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh540\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b Web/App. Server\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj Tomcat, Web Logic, Web Sphere, JBoss\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh615\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b Frameworks\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj Spring, Spring boot, Spring batch, Spring JDBC, Spring JPA, Hibernate , JUnit, Log4J\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh825\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b Web-Stack\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj JSP,XML,XSD,XSLT,HTML,JavaScript,CSS,jQuery,Bootstrap3,ReactJS,Angular,AngularJs,Grunt,Gulp, NodeJs\par
 \cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b IDE Tools/ Repo\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj Eclipse , Intelij Idea, VS Code, SVN, CVS, Bitbucket,Nexus, Jira, SonarQube,Fortify and RStudio\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b Build Tools\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj Ant, Maven, Grunt, Jenkins, Pipeline\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b RDBMS\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj ORACLE, MySQL, SQL Server, MS Access\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b OOAD\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj UML, Design Patterns\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-105\trrh315\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx1260\clbrdrl\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrw15\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrw15\brdrs \cellx8910 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\b No SQL Database\b0\cell 
\pard\intbl\widctlpar\qj MongoDB, Cassandra\cell\row 
\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\qj\cf0\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\cf1\highlight2\b Professional Overview\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\qc\highlight4\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\cf5 Client: Sailpoint\par
Senior Java Developer\cf6\par
\cf5 Apr 2021 to Present\par
\cf0\highlight0\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\fi-360\li720\qj\cf1 Implemented MEAN Stack (MongoDB, Express.JS, AngularJS, NodeJS) with RESTful stands.\cf0\highlight4\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}\cf1\highlight0 Utilized front-end technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Angular2.0/4.0, jQuery, AJAX, React.js.\cf0\highlight4\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}\cf1\highlight0  JSON, Kendo UI for designing User Interface and checked cross browser compatibility with various browsers.\cf0  \highlight4\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj\cf1\highlight0 Used a light front-end framework against the JSON API for their service requests.\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl252\slmult1\qj\tx6120 Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Coordinate with all the teams for functional requirements and ensure compliance to all architecture standards.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Designed complex multithreaded architectures for high-performance applications, optimizing resource utilization and responsiveness.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Developed applications using latest technologies like spring, hibernate (using annotations), and REST based Webservices, XML API and tools.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Worked as part of Microservices team to develop and deliver Maven projects to deploy on tomcat.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used GIT for version control, and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD). \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}My expertise extends to database systems, including SQL databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used Ember.js in combining both tools and concepts of native GUI frameworks with support for the feature that makes the web so powerful the URL.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Skilled in the utilization of Java's Reflection API to inspect and modify class configurations, fields, functions, and annotations during runtime.\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\fi-360\li720\qj Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.\cf0\highlight4\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}\cf1\highlight0 Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords\cf0\tab\cf1 .\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Developed data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) framework and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  \cf0\highlight4\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}\cf1\highlight0 Maintained the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud.\cf0\highlight4\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl252\slmult1\qj\tx6120\cf1\highlight0 Developed Python scripts using multithreading module and Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java. Loaded data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL-DB package.\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\fi-360\li720\qj\tx6120 Implemented Hibernate Inheritance strategies to map relation between tables and configured many-many relationships using Hibernate annotations. \par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\fi-360\li720\qj Used CSS3 (Cascading Style Sheets) along with the preprocessor SASS and RWD to apply different styles to the\~layouts\~for varying screen sizes and pixels.\cf0\highlight4\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}\cf1\highlight0 Developed and Consumed REST based web Services using Spring Boot and JAX-RS.\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\qj Have done server-side scripting using Node.JS to develop the applications, which are data intensive real time applications that run on distributed devices. \cf0\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par

\pard\keepn\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\s1\qc\cf1\highlight4\b\lang16393\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\cf5\lang1033 Client: State of South Carolina\par
Sr. Engineer (Full Stack)\cf6\par
\cf5 May 2018 to Apr 2021\par
\cf0\highlight0\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl252\slmult1\qj\tx6120\cf1 Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Created RESTful APIs in Java environment using JAX-RS and Node.JS using Express.JS framework. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Developed Open stack API to Integrate with GCP (Google Cloud), including creating build images and publishing to artifactory, high availability practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used KAFKA to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB - Nosql database.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating Restful web services.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used Ember.js templates that help to automatically update the model, if contents of applications get change.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Consumed REST based Micro services with REST template based RESTful API and utilized spring cloud to manage the complexity.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Worked on creating Restful API's using Ember.JS to be consumed by backend.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Developed python scripts to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used Hibernate, ORM solution technique of mapping data and involved in creating Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotation.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}A thorough understanding of the inner workings of the JVM and its evolution across Java versions, facilitating enhanced performance optimization and effective troubleshooting.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Deployed the code in Jenkins server and Setting up Docker Containers with Docker Swarm for continuous integration and build. \par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\qj\tx6120\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\cf5\highlight4\b Client: Capital One\par
Sr. Engineer (Full Stack)\cf6\par
\cf5 Sept 2016 to mar 2018\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\qj\tx6120\cf1\highlight0\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl252\slmult1\qj\tx6120 Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Developed SOAP/REST based web services supporting XML and JSON message formats. Performed Benchmarking and Load testing using Cassandra-stress tool.\cf0  \cf1\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Worked with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message oriented middleware. Modified\~CSS-driven\~layouts\~and manipulate the visual\~layout, especially during code-freeze. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Worked with task runner GULP, Jasmine test framework and Test-Driven\~Development (TDD)\cf7\highlight4 .\cf1\highlight0  \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra. Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Set up and oversaw CI/CD pipelines to automate the building and deployment procedures, resulting in quicker and error-free releases.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Deployed strong security protocols, encompassing authentication and authorization, to protect confidential financial information effectively.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Designed and implemented the logging mechanism using SVN as a version control tool and Ant for building and deploying the application.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab} Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Took charge of designing and developing essential Java applications, guaranteeing strict compliance with high-performance and security criteria.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\highlight4\b\par
\cf5 Client: MetLife\par
Java Web Developer\cf6\par
\cf5 Sept 2013\endash  Jun 2016\par
\cf6\par

\pard{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf4\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl252\slmult1\qj\tx6120\cf1\highlight0\b0 Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using JSP, AngularJS, CSS, and HTML, JSTL tag libraries in JSP pages based on the W3C standards. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC-EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Groups, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used Ember.js and Twitter Bootstrap as the front-end frameworks to develop the Single Page Applications.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Built RESTful API in Java using JAX-RS for obtaining proper error codes, URL Mapping and implemented them using Jersey.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, backbone.js, Ember.js Require.js and node.js to develop User Interface of web pages.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Expertise in fine-tuning thread management, minimizing contention, and optimizing algorithms to achieve maximum throughput and minimal latency.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Developed Spring Framework based service layer. Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Designed and implemented scalable, RESTful and microservices-based mobile back-end. Extracted Data from RDMS into Cassandra Cluster using Sqoop and involved in commission and decommission of the nodes in the existing Cassandra cluster.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Employed various core and J2ee design patterns like factory, DAO, Command, Business Delegate, MVC, Service locator.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Worked on Log analysis web application by using elastic search tools with Docker cross platform. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Transformed designs mock-ups to customized standards HTML pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery,\~JSON\~and XML.\~ \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used\~SVN\~for version control across common source code used by\~developers. Code to build automation task using Gulp and Grunt and involved in writing server-side scripts using Node.js and Express.js framework. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Used jQuery Grid plugin for data manipulation between presentation and business logic layers. \par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT.\par
{\pntext\f4\'B7\tab}Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project in Hybrid methodology.\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\qj\lang16393\par
\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\cf5\highlight4\b\lang1033 Education Details: Bachelors of Engineering,\par
\cf6 GITAM University,\par
\cf5 Computer Science (2009-2013)\par
\cf6\par
\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\qj\cf1\highlight0\b0\lang16393\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f3\fs22\lang9\par
}
 